SurgePays (SURG) / 13 Aug 24 / 2024 Q2 Earnings call transcript
Company Profile
 Transcript menu
Kevin Cox executive
Anthony Evers executive
Anja Soderstrom analyst
Curtis Shauger analyst
Edward W oo analyst
Operator
Greetings. W elcome to SurgePays Second Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this conference is being
recorded. I will now turn the conference over to your host, Doug Lane, Investor Relations at SurgePays. Doug, you may begin.
Unknown Executive
Thank you, operator , and good afternoon, everyone. W elcome to the SurgePays Second Quarter 2024 Earnings W ebcast and Conference Call. Today's
date is August 13, 2024, and on the call today from SurgePays are Brian Cox, President and Chief Executive Of ficer; and Tony Evers, Chief Financial
Officer.
Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that this call may contain forward-looking statements as they are defined under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to dif fer materially from those
expressed in the forward-looking statements.
For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, please see SurgePays most recent filings with the SEC. All forward-looking statements made today
reflect our current expectations only , and we undertake no obligation to update any statement to reflect the events that occur after this call. Copies of
today's press release are accessible on SurgePays Investor Relations website, ir .surgepays.com.
In addition, SurgePays Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2024, will also be available on SurgePays Investor Relations website. And now I'd like to
turn the call over to President and Chief Executive Of ficer, Brian Cox.
Kevin Cox
Thanks, Doug. Thank you for joining today's call and your continued interest in SurgePays. I want to start by reiterating our unwavering commitment to
providing financial technology and prepaid wireless services to the underbanked and underserved populations at the grassroots level where they live and
shop. This commitment is at the core of our mission and guides all of our actions.
Over the past few years, we have successfully acquired over 250,000 subscribers to our Mobile V irtual Network Operators or MVNO business, which at its
peak accounted for over 90% of our consolidated sales. This was made possible by of fering plans subsidized by the federally funded Affordable
Connectivity Program or ACP. We were aware that this program's funding could run out in the first half of this year , which it did.
However , the uncertainty lay in whether Congress would authorize additional funding for the program, which, unfortunately , as of this date, did not happen.
We want to ensure you we are fully informed about the challenges we face. But as I said on the last call, we could no longer wait around to find out. W e
had contingencies and had already begun implementing non-subsidized MVNO business, LinkUp Mobile, which was launched in early June. W e aim to
offer our subscribers the option to remain on a free monthly plan subsidized by a sister subsidy program or transition them over to LinkUp Mobile, which
we price to be attractive to our target customer .
We also hired Joe Gomez, a senior telecommunications industry executive for the newly created position of V ice President of MVNO Operations. Joe
spent over 18-years at AT&T and brings a wealth of experience to the team. He is charged with helping to develop innovative products and services for the
value market segment where we believe our competitive position is enhanced in a non-subsidized market environment. Stay tuned for further
developments to come in our ongoing ef forts to build out our prepaid wireless MVNO business. In the meantime, we are going through a transition phase
in the business. It would have been an easy though shortsighted decision to let our subscribers go once the ACP funding ran out. That's losing sight of the
fact that we now have an existing subscriber base of 250,000 customers, not to mention a distribution network of thousands of local convenience stores
and bodegas where our customers shop every day . Those are huge and valuable assets. Therefore, to hold on to these valuable assets during this
transition period, we chose to keep our subscribers active, absorb the wholesale costs and put our strong balance sheet to work to replace the cash flow
we lost once ACP funding ran out. But rest assured, this is only temporary . We do not like talking about cash burn rates around here, and we plan to put
that in the rearview mirror by the time we closed the year in December .
So in looking at the second quarter 2024 results, our sales were $15.1 million compared to $35.9 million in the year ago quarter , which were about as
expected with the ACP program winding down mid-quarter and Congress declining to provide it with new funding at least as of yet.
Our MVNO revenues were $12.5 million versus $30.2 million in the same quarter of last year when ACP was fully funded throughout the quarter . Also
impacting sales were the operational changes made by management in Surge Logic's lead generation services, which had $2.8 million in sales a year ago
quarter , but did not contribute sales this quarter . What was not expected in our planning coming into 2024 was that the second quarter gross profit would
Print
be a loss of $3.4 million versus a $10 million profit the year ago quarter . This was due to the double whammy of Congress letting the original ACP funding
run out and not immediately renewing the program, coupled with our decision to have our balance sheet take on the funding to maintain continuity within
our subscriber base.
So why would we continue to provide wireless services and absorb the costs? For 3 main reasons. Number one, Congress could renew the ACP program
at any time. And if we terminated service, we would have to go out and reacquire customers from a standing start, which would cost tens of millions of
dollars. Number two, if Congress delayed or didn't fund the program, we had as a backup plan B to acquire a company with licenses to provide a similar
subsidy program to our customer base and recapture a lower but viable and sustainable reoccurring revenue stream. This is in conjunction with
incentivizing customers to switch over to LinkUp Mobile, our non-subsidized prepaid wireless brand. Number three, we know how critical a role broadband
service plays in everybody's life, and we believe it was simply the right thing to do.
As we evolve, we want to become and more increasingly important provider of goods and services to our convenience store and bodega partners.
While prepaid wireless and fintech are the main products we now provide, we look to expand our of ferings to these points of distribution in the community
since we know that our customer base of underbanked and underserved consumers conduct most of their financial transactions at their trusted local
convenience store. W e recognize that the delay in ACP funding has adversely impacted our business and stock price. Therefore, we feel it's an
opportunistic time to announce a corporate stock buyback, so our long-term investors know our interests are aligned.
We have announced a buyback of up to $5 million of SurgePays common stock in the open market over the next 6 months.
We are in a transition phase and are looking to get back to generating positive free cash flow by the end of this year through the following initiatives:
number one, continue to grow our ACP revenue stream should Congress continue to fund it; number two, of fer our subscriber base, a sister subsidy
program while enticing customers with a cost-saving LinkUp prepaid wireless plan. Number three, scaling up our third-party wholesale transactions for
other prepaid wireless company payments at convenience stores. This initiative has been necessary because it's a relationship gateway product for
LinkUp activations and subscriber growth at the convenience store. Number four , expand our of ferings outside of wireless.
For instance, we recently launched our ClearLine customer engagement platform for convenience stores at last month's RetailNOW Conference in Las
Vegas. Number five, expand product and service of ferings to the same nationwide network of convenience stores we are building by exploring and
executing prospective partnering or product distribution opportunities. Number six, identify unique market opportunities that represent potential positive
short-term cash flow .
As I said at the outset, we knew that the ACP funding could run out and we were not waiting around for Congress to provide additional funding. Many
initiatives are underway to expand SurgePays footprint among the underbanked and underserved who remain our key customers. Stay tuned for more
news on this front as we move into the back half of 2024. I'll turn the call over to Tony to review our financial results before summarizing today's call. Tony?
Anthony Evers
Thank you, Brian, and good afternoon, everyone. I will begin my overview of the second quarter's financial results.
For the second quarter , we reported revenues of $15.1 million compared to $35.9 million in 2023, representing a decrease of 58%. The decrease was
primarily due to the lack of additional federal funding for the ACP. April was the last month that ACP households received the full ACP benefit as they had
in prior months.
Some ACP households received a partial benefit in May and ef fective June 1, households were no longer receiving an ACP benefit.
Additionally , similar to the first quarter , we received no revenues from our lead generation services consisting of LogicsIQ and Q2 of 2024 versus the $2.8
million received in Q2 of 2023. This was a result of operational changes by management. Gross profit swung to a $3.4 million loss in the second quarter
from a $10 million profit in the year ago period due to our strategic decision to utilize our strong balance sheet to protect our ACP subscriber base and
distribution network while we transition over to a non-subsidized MVNO business model.
Additionally , the deemphasis of our lead generation business resulted in a lower gross profits in that segment as well. SG&A  expenses increased by 101%
year-over-year . Increase was primarily due to additional non-cash stock compensation for management. The stock compensation relates to employment
agreements signed in late 2023.
We also had additional expenses for contractor and consulting fees. The company engaged several contractors to overhaul the financial platform to allow
for the conversion to a tablet-based transaction at the store level from the outdated V erifone terminal. The company also engaged with consultants to
provide advisory services, specifically in the area of investment relations to identify opportunities to increase our shareholder value. Loss from operations
was $10.9 million during the second quarter compared to a $6.2 million profit in a year ago period.
Our reported net loss and loss per share were $12.9 million loss and $0.66 per share loss.
Our loss, and loss per share were adversely impacted primarily by the ending of the federally funded ACP for our customers during the quarter .
Turning to the balance sheet, liquidity and cash flow .
Our cash balance as of June 30, 2024, was $38.4 million compared to $42.9 million at the end of the first quarter .
Our cash from operations was $4.1 million in use in the second quarter versus a $4.0 million source in the first quarter , a large negative swing due to the
winding down of the federal ACP funding to our customers during the quarter , which we picked up and funded with our cash on hand. Accounts receivable
decreased by $6.9 million in the second quarter to a $1.4 million from $8.3 million at the end of the first quarter . The ACP stopped accepting new
subscribers in February of 2024, resulting in much lower receivables from the U.S. government.
Given our cash balance and capital structure, our cash allocation priority is in financing the transition from a federally subsidized [ NPO model ] to one fully
funded by our customers. I will now pass the call back to Brian for some closing remarks.
Kevin Cox
Thanks, Tony. I believe the 4 key components to a company's success are the team, the products, the distribution and the funding. I believe we have
assembled the best and most experienced team in the history of prepaid wireless products. W e currently have the most compelling of fering in our market.
We own our own distribution and have $38 million cash in the bank as of June 30, 2024, to execute our transition. I believe SurgePays has the foundation
for long-term success despite the short-term disruption caused by the ACP funding situation. Thank you so much for your time today .
We will now open up the call to questions. Operator?
Operator
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is coming from Anja Soderstrom from Sidoti.
Anja Soderstrom
First, of course, the ACP. What are you -- how optimistic are you that that's going to be refunded? And do you have any sort of idea of any timeline there?
Kevin Cox
Anja, thanks for the question. I'd tell you, it's been a week-to-week feedback scenario for us.
I think our optimism wanes as time goes on, I mean, just being blunt. W e had internally set a date of August 1 to take action and assume internally , if ACP
comes back? Great. If it doesn't, it's beyond that, let's just call it, the threshold that we had set for ourselves to take and move to transition to Plan B.
We are still told that there are actions taking place in the halls of Congress.
We are still told that most people -- even the folks who were negative about the program now are very positive about it, especially since J.D. V ance on the
Republican side as the V ice President pick, and he was a huge advocate of the program. But at the same time, we can't sit on our hands anymore as we
talked about earlier , had to take action.
So we're positioning the company after a lot of talk and a lot of back and forth. W e want to transition these customers or of fer them the ability to remain on
a free service and then have that subsidized by the Lifeline program. But for those that want to keep a, let's call it, a heavier broadband bandwidth, more
gigabytes per month more accustomed to a regular wireless plan that would have a much larger -- let's call it, more like a regular plan, $30 or $40 or $50
plan. In the prepaid world of fer those folks a discounted LinkUp mobile plan that they could transition to.
So if they needed the help, they could stay on the Lifeline, the free service, if they wanted to have something more similar to ACP in that service, then they
could start paying for it.
Anja Soderstrom
And do you have any sort of initial read on who's going to opt for the Lifeline program, who's going to up for the LinkUp Mobile?
Kevin Cox
My instincts would tell me that the majority of folks want something is free, they're going to maintain and stick with the free program. And then it would be
over the course of, let's say , 3 to 4 months, the transition would take place to bump to a paid plan. I don't think people out of the gate would opt for a paid
plan until they've experienced the free plan first.
Anja Soderstrom
Okay . And -- and then in terms of the ClearLine customer engagement platform, what are you seeing initial reads there?
Kevin Cox
I've spent a lot of time with our folks on the ClearLine side of things. I'm really happy we acquired ClearLine.
Just a quick history lesson for those that are not familiar with ClearLine. The reason we acquired ClearLine was they had a really good technology that
allowed us to do the ACP enrollments at convenience stores. They enabled us, as Tony had mentioned, to transition away from refurbished V erifone
terminals, which are the little credit card terminals with the keypad push buttons. They allowed us to transition over to touchscreens, which enable people
to use their finger to sign things and it is obviously a much more technologically advanced interface at the store. Also provides for a lot of cool things in the
future, such as scanning QR codes and doing transactions, which is one of our business model -- or excuse me, business plan goals in the future is to be
able to be that go-to for digital transactions at the convenience store front or bank folks.
So ClearLine was a really good acquisition for us, but what was -- it helped us accomplish a goal that we had and an immediate need. It addressed the
problem for us. But the really great thing about that is with that solution, also came all of the projects that they were currently working on and were just a
tad bit underfunded. They had a great team. They were almost there on quite a few projects, and we incentivized the guys to come over . We converted
that entrepreneur into an entrepreneur , empowered him to go focus on doing what he was great at and not have to worry about all the operational
distractions of running a business. And Nate, the gentleman who runs up for us has rolled out some really good products. And just at a high level, the goal
of ClearLine is to create customer engagement at the store level. And they've got quite a few products, and I don't want to take up too much time because
it's a little bit -- it can get of f into the weeds. But for example, having a scenario where you walk into a convenience store -- and by the way , over the next
year or 2, you're going to start seeing this at your larger chains and all the way down to the mom-and-pops, where instead of posters on the wall, you're
going to see big screen TVs mounted, and there's going to be more dynamic advertising in these stores. And it's going to be engaging. It's not going to be
just slides of pictures. It's going to be QR codes. It's going to be things that can be tracked and redeemed right there at the register . ClearLine manages
that entire process.
As a matter of fact, we're rolling that out now into several chains. I don't want to call it a beta test because we know it works. But as our initial engagement
of putting it out in the market, very high-margin products for us. And what's really cool about it is it's the same target market, the convenience store, and it
can be another relationship builder .
So that same ClearLine TV, if you will, over in the corner that's rolling 8 to 10 dif ferent ads with buy 1, get 1 free or what have you. And it's got the QR
code, customers can hold their smartphone up, scan walk right up to the register and literally tap their phone and then redeem that coupon in real time,
that data will be sent in a really cool back of fice format to the store owner or the chain owners, and they'll know the impact of their in-store marketing, their
hyper local marketing. And that same system will also enable them to do our prepaid transactions, our third-party prepaid top-ups for any wireless
company out there. That same system will also allow them to do activations for LinkUp Mobile. That is a customer now . That is a point of distribution for us
and all of our other products at the convenience stores.
So that's what's really -- the ClearLine deal, again, it addressed a problem that we had with a solution, but it came with it with a plethora of fantastic
opportunities. But I'm not even sure we fully realized last year when we bought it. But now we've been able to capitalize on those.
Anja Soderstrom
Okay . And then after you talked about getting back to free cash flow positive this year . How -- do you vision you doing that without the ACP being
refunded? Or how dependent are you on that, for coming back for you to be free cash flow positive?
Kevin Cox
Yes. No, I appreciate that question. The -- our goal of being cash flow positive by the end of the year is assuming ACP has gone. I'm not going to do any
modeling or projections or any -- even on my own spreadsheets, old school pro forma, I'm not going to factor in any ACP. I'm going to assume that's
behind us. The cash flow positive by the end of the year would be taking into account transitioning those customers who want to remain on a free product
over to a Lifeline product, that would be the third-party wireless transactions we talked about that really a gateway product to the store. It's the lead
product to -- where a convenience store owner could take payments for every prepaid wireless company out there using our platform. That is ramping up
significantly right now . The ClearLine product picking in for us and then by the end of the year , LinkUp Mobile getting its -- getting traction and starting to
contribute as well.
Operator
The next question is coming from Curtis Shauger from W ater Tower Research.
Curtis Shauger
Can you hear me?
Kevin Cox
Yes.
Curtis Shauger
I think what immediately comes to mind for me is, are there any opportunities with the carriers to help mitigate the cost that you're experiencing to keep
the ACP customers alive?
Kevin Cox
That's a good question. And I appreciate that question because you've given me an angle to discuss some of what Tony and I and our management team
has been scratching our head about. The initial discounts, and let's call it maybe the cost of goods sold alleviation that the carriers were discussing, it was
a lot more aggressive for a period of time back, let's say , when this first came up on the horizon in April, but they pulled a lot of it back due to their absolute
certainty that ACP was going to be funded.
So it was really -- I mean, we were in a whirlwind. Every day , it was something dif ferent. It was a soap opera.
And so that's one reason why finally , we had to put our foot down and say , "Hey , this is the path we're going to chart." If ACP comes back, great, if it
doesn't, it's been a great run. The carriers right now , where I believe the alleviation is going to be is, obviously , they do not want to lose subscribers.
Just looking out at the market, you can see some of the other guys out there who have lost significant subscribers. The backbones of T-Mobile and AT&T,
they don't want to lose subscribers.
So I think where we're going to see the -- I would never call it a partnership necessarily , but the assistance to collectively keep these subscribers on is
going to be in of fering some discounted rates to provide these folks lifeline service, which, again, that's the subsidy program has been around since
Ronald Reagan. And it's not quite as much as ACP, but it is viable. The challenge with Lifeline was that pricing to provide the service, the wholesale side of
it never was really there to give consumers a viable product. It was almost just an emergency phone or let's just call it like the glove box phone. But now
where I think carriers are -- from what I've seen, and we'll find out in the next week or 2. But what we're told is they're going to step up and of fer us
something that would be considered a regular plan for a basic phone user talk, text, data, that would be something that could be provided on the Lifeline
program.
So that's where I think they're going to step up. And look, they have given us discounts the last couple of months.
So if they had not, it probably would have moved the needle faster for us. But those were all things that we factored in, and they have stepped up a little
bit. I wish they would have shouldered it more. But again, they were under the complete impression that this was going to be funded. Their folks told them,
our folks told us, everybody across the board, both sides of the aisle, everybody thought it would have been funded.
I think everybody is still a little bit caught of f guard, it wasn't. But we're here now . And that's why we've taken that day of August 1 to start to pass to Plan B,
get back on -- get back cash flow positive and then go from there.
Operator
The next question will be from Andrew Scott from 395 Group.
Unknown Analyst
I know you guys are in a truly challenging period right now . And a lot of the questions that I had were just answered regarding what's your fastest way back
to cash flow positivity and breakeven. It sounds like you guys outlined it on the call, it looks like you have more than enough cash to get there. And I've
heard you talk about Lifeline a lot. W ould you consider -- would you look at any other accretive acquisitions with synergistic business models, whether it be
any other kind of payment processing? I'm still on ideas out there. But -- have you guys thought about other acquisitions in addition to Lifeline?
Kevin Cox
Yes. Thank you for the question, Andrew . And yes, we're constantly in a mode of evaluating.
Let's call it sorting and sifting like [ painting ] for gold through acquisitions. And I think right now , and let's just kind of zoom out of the ACP and what we're
dealing with and say the macro environment is unique for a company with cash in the bank. W e don't want to buy a company just to buy a company or just
to go buy revenue. But I think one of the mantras I've had is I'd rather have a little less in the bank and have that cash flow stacking upward than have a
little more in the bank and have that cash flow depleting because you're either growing or you're dying.
So that's just an old school mentality that coming from the entrepreneurial world where we had to survive or you went out of business. And yes, it's a tough
environment, but it's a transition. And look, the opportunities for people who keep their heads up during transitions or during tough environments.
I think the team that we have, we've made our biggest gains when times were the toughest.
So we see this as opportunity . There's opportunities for millions of customers who are going to be looking for an alternate way to communicate for their
wireless services. There's opportunities out there with immigration and the Hispanic, say , the bilingual prepaid wireless companies. There's not a whole lot
of them out there right now . There's a lot of opportunities out there. And one of the benefits that I get to enjoy is that our team is built of primarily at the
high-level former entrepreneurs who all built from scratch, from nothing, just crawling across glass, elbows and knees and elbows to survive.
So we've all been through things that are far worse than this. W e've been through things similar to this but no money in the bank.
So we're survivors, very intelligent folks with huge networks. And then we've added folks from the larger carriers, as we talked about with Joe Gomez,
Jeremy Gies, people who bring the corporate aspect of the wireless world together as well.
So we're -- obviously , if ACP has stayed around, I'm not going to sit here and say that we're just -- we're fine whatever . It will be the same a year from now
where we look and we look back and like -- ACP, by the nature of it being a gold rush land rush for a timeframe, made us a one product company . And that
was never the intention of why we built this. That was -- that's not necessarily our mission, but it was a fantastic opportunity . If it's not funded again. I mean
we've been over and picked up a $200 million bill. W e strengthened the balance sheet. W e're able to strengthen our team, we're able to make some
acquisitions.
So either way , the way we look at it. Yes, of course. And look, kind of summarizing the last part of your question, W e're always open to acquisitions that
would grow the company because we're not just an ACP company . We're not just a wireless company and we have goals of distributing into these
convenience stores. And I think if you zero in, one of the things that the ACP depletion has made us do, and sometimes it's not a bad thing.
Just go back, sharpen your pencil and remember who you are, why you put this together and what your goals were. And our goal is -- we've been more
focused on our goals for the last 2 months.
So it's actually -- again, ACP was still around, but this has not been a bad exercise, big picture as we are looking forward 3 to 5 years for us to really focus
in on who we want to be, who -- and how are we going to get there?
Unknown Analyst
Got it. Guys, nice touch on the corporate buyback. That was a really good idea.
Operator
And the next question will be from Ed W oo from Ascendiant Capital.
Edward W oo
My question is you guys have a direct relationship with the underserved market through the convenience stores. What are you hearing in terms of the
economic outlook? And has it really changed? And how has that impacted your business? And obviously , with the underserved customers.
Kevin Cox
Ed, thanks for the question.
I think that the feedback maybe a way to position that is one of the things we've been cultivating is specific feedback as it relates to the wireless world. And
consumers are looking for something that's more engaging.
As far as the economy , it is what it is. And we've always talked about the underbanked segment of society really is not necessarily af fected by the Dow
Jones or the GDP  of the country , they kind of maintains it is what it is in good times and bad times that underbanked, underserved market stays pretty
similar . But there's been a stagnant of fering platform to these consumers for the past 3 or 4 or 5 years. And if you look at the prepaid brands out there,
there's been a lot of consolidation where the larger carriers, previously Sprint, T-Mobile, V erizon and AT&T, acquired quite a few of the larger companies.
And then obviously , we know that Sprint and T-Mobile merged or Sprint was acquired.
So we think there's a huge opportunity out there for value-added prepaid wireless, not just who can of fer the cheapest talk, text and data. No. That's
something we can -- due to our ef ficiencies, we can compete in that environment. But then when the next that comes along and of fers the same plan for a
couple of bucks less, I mean, now you're in that down -- I always call it the downward bidding game.
I think that what we've put together and when you start adding some of the unique components that we can pull from our subsidiaries.
For example, one of the folks that are integrated with ClearLine is a coupon redemption company , that the intent of that company is to work for
convenience stores and the register . And -- but what we can utilize that for is of fering coupons texted sent to our customers, LinkUp Mobile when they pay
their bill. There's a lot of really unique ways that we can dif ferentiate from the other guys out there without just trying to be the cheapest.
So that's some of the feedback that we're getting right now . We're also hearing that with the -- obviously , we all know we're the melting pot here in the
United States. The feedback that we've gotten from a lot of the master agents, we're probably up to 15-plus right now that we're integrating with is that the
international of fering if we can strengthen that, which we are right now , there's a pretty significant opportunity out there. There's of the masters that we're
either integrating with through API or have just finished integrating with, there's known monthly activations of between 120,000 and 150,000 activations a
month. W e didn't want to go in, Ed, and just try to carve out a little of that. W e wanted to be able to take it all. And one of the feedback -- there's 2 things
that we got.
One of them was you -- we need to strengthen our international of fering because there are still people that don't use WhatsApp and Telegram and some of
these other apps. To call long distance, people still want to just dial direct.
So we're working on that right now . We look to have that of fering together in the next 30, 60 days.
The other one was porting numbers over . Historically , the telephone number for that prepaid customer was not really that important -- that goes back over
a decade.
Here recently , now that everything is connected to your number , your -- what is the -- where you get text messages to authorize forgotten passwords and
all the other -- the mechanisms that are attached to your phone number , it is important.
So the ability to port numbers, that's something else that we are integrating a little more heavily on right now so that we can go get all those subscribers.
So feedback directly from our , let's call it, our stores, more directly from the master agent to get the feedback from stores. Those are the 2 big focuses
right now for us to be able to achieve. Like I said, these goals we've talked about by the end of the year , because when we look down -- and I mean, look -
- look, I've never been somebody who just wants a piece, I want the whole thing.
So if I can see 150,000 activations a month, and we need to take these 2 or 3 steps to knock something out so that we can take it. That's what we're doing
right now . And we're -- it's not just hearing the feedback, Ed. It's executing a strategy to maximize that feedback and use it to our advantage. And hey , this
is all happening right now .
As a matter of fact, we have a -- in 2 weeks, we have the largest prepaid convention of the year . and we will be rolling out all of these products. And I'm
booked, sun up and down with meetings personally along with the sales team. And we've got about, I think, 10 to 12 of our team members, so we're
coming in strong, and we're not coming into being also run. W e're coming in to be one of the top guys.
So stay tuned. I appreciate the question as always, and look forward to hearing from you again.
Operator
This is the end of our Q&A  session today . And that does conclude today's conference, and you may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your
participation.
